h2. How to get help with Refinery

We all sometimes hit a brick wall. This guide will show you how to:

* Get support and help by connecting with other Refinery developers

endprologue.

One of Refinery's key principles is "Encourage and Help Others" so if you have any problems just let us know and we'll do our best to help you. And one day you might help someone else out too!

h3. IRC Channel

Use your favourite IRC client to connect to #refinerycms on freenode.net, or use this "Online IRC Client":http://webchat.freenode.net/?randomnick=1&amp;channels=refinerycms&amp;prompt=1&amp;uio=d4.

NOTE: If you ask a question and don't get an immediate response, don't take offence; either wait a half-hour and ask again, or just post your question on the "Google Group":http://group.refinerycms.org instead. This gives developers who are in other timezones or who are temporarily unavailable a chance to help you out.

Alternatively, just use this in-browser client below.

<iframe src="http://webchat.freenode.net/?randomnick=1&amp;channels=refinerycms&amp;prompt=1&amp;uio=d" width="613" height="428"></iframe>

h3. Google Group

The "Refinery CMS Google Group":http://group.refinerycms.org is a great place to ask for help if you don't get a response on IRC. Your first message may take a short while to appear, as all first-time posters are required by Google Groups to pass moderation.

h3. Core Team

* Philip Arndt (parndt) - Resolve Digital
* Uģis Ozols (ugisozols)

h3. Other places

* API (click 'File List' in top right) - <a href="http://api.refinerycms.org" title="http://api.refinerycms.org">http://api.refinerycms.org</a>
* "GitHub Wiki":http://wiki.github.com/resolve/refinerycms/
* "Guides":http://refinerycms.com/guides
