h2. Translate Refinery into your language

Refinery supports translations. This guide will show you how to:

* Improve upon or add a new translation to Refinery

endprologue.

h3. Setup

Before you start translating, you should clone a fresh copy of Refinery from GitHub. See "this guide":/guides/how-to-contribute-to-refinery-development for information how to do that.

To make things a bit easier for the "core team":http://refinerycms.com/about, please create a branch like i18n_LOCALE (example: i18n_nl). This makes it much easier for it to be merged in.

<shell>
$ git checkout -b i18n_nl
</shell>

And you're ready to roll!

h3. Finding missing keys

Execute the following rake task, to get a list of missing translations

<shell>
$ rake translate:lost_in_translation LOCALE=nl
</shell>

The output of this will look like this

<pre>
Searching for missing translations for the locale: nl
admin.pages.form_advanced_options.page_options in pages/app/views/admin/pages/_form_advanced_options.html.erb      is not in any nl locale file
admin.pages_dialogs.link_to.insert in pages/app/views/admin/pages_dialogs/link_to.html.erb     is not in any nl locale file
Number of missing translations for nl: 2
</pre>

As you can see, there are two missing keys: +admin.pages.form_advanced_options.page_options+ and +admin.pages_dialogs.link_to.insert+

h3. Adding the keys

Each plugin has its own locale YAML files. The one we'll have to fix is +pages/config/locales/nl.yml+. Note that it is important to put the right key in the right file.

The key +admin.pages_dialogs.link_to.insert+, is to be represented in YAML like this:

<yaml>
nl:
  admin:
    pages_dialogs:
      link_to:
        insert: Voeg in
</yaml>

We'd love to see you order the keys exactly like the en.yml version. This way, you can use a diff-enabled-editor, to open both the +en.yml+ and +nl.yml+ file, and blazingly fast update the locale.

TIP: If you're starting a new translation, copy +en.yml+ to "your_locale".yml</p>

WARNING: Make sure you change +en:+ to your locale's key at the top of "your_locale".yml to avoid overriding the English translation (e.g. +nl:+)

h3. Commit & Push

Add the modified files to the git repository

<shell>
$ git add pages/config/locales/nl.yml
</shell>

Commit your changes

<shell>
$ git commit
</shell>

and push them back to GitHub

<shell>
$ git push origin i18n_nl
</shell>

h3. Pull request

* Go to GitHub, and select your i18n_"your locale" branch. (I selected i18n_nl)
* Click on the button "Pull request"
* Add a message about I18n, like "Hi, i've translated the missing Dutch keys"
* Press "Send pull request"

h3. Done

And now you're done! If your changes are accepted, you will end up on the "contributor list":http://github.com/resolve/refinerycms/contributors