= Refinery CMS

A Ruby on Rails content management system for small business.

* Live demo frontend: http://demo.refinerycms.com
* Live demo backend: http://demo.refinerycms.com/admin

For screenshots, example sites & high level information: http://refinerycms.com

== What it's good at

Refinery is great for small business sites where the client needs to be able to update their website themselves without being bombarded with anything too complicated.

Unlike other content managers, Refinery is truly aimed at the end user making it easy for them to pick up and make changes themselves.

For developers Refinery makes it easy to:
* Get a small business site up and running ridiculously quickly
* Theme and customise the look to suit the business
* Extend with custom areas that meet the clients' needs.

== Requirements

Refinery runs using a number of gems which (as of Refinery version 0.9.5.29) are outlined below:

* rake >= 0.8.3
* friendly_id >= 2.2.2
* will_paginate >= 2.3.11
* rails >= 2.3.5
* aasm >= 2.1.3
* unicode >= 0.1
* slim_scrooge >= 1.0.3
* hpricot >= 0.8.1

Other dependencies

* RMagick

Install docs here http://rmagick.rubyforge.org/install-faq.html
Mac OS users might find this easier: http://github.com/maddox/magick-installer

== Installing and Setting Up Refinery

=== 1. Getting the Refinery code!

You can get Refinery CMS by either installing the Ruby Gem:

  gem install refinerycms --source http://gemcutter.org
  refinery /path/to/project

Or cloning our Git repository:

  git clone git://github.com/resolve/refinerycms.git mynewsite.com
  cd ./mynewsite.com
  git remote rm origin
  git remote add origin git@github.com:you/yournewsite.git
  mv ./config/database.yml.example ./config/database.yml

=== 2. Configuration

Now, edit config/database.yml to your database server details.

Then run this to create your database and fill it with Refinery's default data:

  rake db:setup

After your database exists you will need to install the gems that Refinery depends on by running this command:

  rake gems:install

=== 3. Starting up your site

  ruby script/server

Now in your browser go to http://localhost:3000 and your site should be running.

You will be prompted to setup your first user.

== Help and Developer Documentation

For help and general discussion about RefineryCMS, we have set up a Google Group at:
http://groups.google.com/group/refinery-cms

Developer documentation is available here:
http://api.refinerycms.org

A 26 minute developer video can be viewed here: http://refinerycms.com/pages/for-developers

== Setting Up on Heroku

If you're using Heroku you will want to put

  USE_S3_BACKEND = true

in your config/production.rb file.

== Updates to core files

If you are running Refinery as a gem, updates are simple to incorporate into your project.
Simply run the command:

  refinery-update-core /path/to/project

and the up-to-date core files will be copied from the latest gem into your project's directory.
Note: the directory that you specify here must be the Rails root for the project.

If you are running using a git clone, you can update by running these commands:

  git remote add refinerycms git://github.com/resolve/refinerycms.git
  git pull refinerycms master

This will pull in all of the updated files in the project and may result in some merge conflicts which you will need to resolve.

== What comes included with Refinery

=== Pages
* Easily edit and manage pages with a WYSIWYG visual editor
* Manage you site's structure

=== Images & Resources
* Easily upload and insert images
* Upload and link to resources like PDF documents

=== Inquiries
* Collect inquiries from a contact form
* Manage your inquiries and be notified when new ones come in

=== News
* Post news about your company and update your visitors

=== Settings
* Manage various aspects of Refinery

===  Dashboard
* Get an overview of what has been updated recently

=== ...Want more?

Extend Refinery easily by running the Refinery generator

  ruby script/generate refinery

to get help on how to use that.

=== What about a portfolio?

Have a peek at http://github.com/resolve/portfolio

== License

Refinery is released under the MIT license and is copyright (c) 2005-2009 Resolve Digital Ltd.
A copy of the MIT license can be found in the LICENSE file.