h2. Writing a Guide for this Website

This guide covers writing your own guide. After reading it, you should be able to:

* Format a guide.
* Submit it for approval and inclusion on this website.

endprologue.

h3. Format the guide

The best way for you to learn how to create a guide is to look at how a guide is structured. We are currently using the docrails project and as such all of the guides are written in textile.

A good example of how a guide can be structured is the 'Getting Started With Refinery' guide which you can "see here":https://github.com/refinery/refinerycms/raw/master/doc/guides/1%20-%20Getting%20Started/1%20-%20Getting%20Started.textile.

You should be able to match the sections of the raw textile guide with the "live guide":/guides/getting-started/ to see how each aspect works.

h3. Submitting the guide

* Login to "http://github.com":http://github.com
* Go to "http://github.com/refinery/refinerycms":http://github.com/refinery/refinerycms
* If you have a fork of refinerycms already, delete it (_if you're not going to lose work. This makes it much easier for us to integrate your changes back in_)
* Click on "fork" to make a fresh new fork on your own account.

Next make your changes or new guide in the 'doc/guides' folder.

Now go to "http://github.com/refinery/refinerycms":http://github.com/refinery/refinerycms and click "Pull Request".

After we review it, we'll merge it into the master refinerycms repository, and the changes will be up on http://refinerycms.com/guides within a few seconds.

h3. Why submit a guide?

The majority of Refinery CMS remains undocumented as development happens quickly. We'd appreciate it very much if you submitted a new guide or updated old ones. Here are some reasons for doing so:

* You will be listed as a contributor at "github":https://github.com/refinery/refinerycms/contributors
* All contributors receive special status in the "IRC Channel":irc://irc.freenode.net/refinerycms
* Help others who face the same issues
* Reduce the amount of time the core team spends on support so they can focus on making Refinery even better
