h2. How to add custom JavaScript files

By default, Refinery does not load any javascript files on the frontend of your website.

However, most of the time you want to provide your own files so this guide will show you how to achieve this.

endprologue.

h3. Including your own JavaScript files

If you want to include your own javascript files you just have to include this in your home.html.erb:

<shell>
<% content_for :javascripts do %>
  <% javascript_include_tag('jquery.cycle.all.js', 'jquery.super_awesome.plugin.js', 'moreAwesome.js') %>
<% end %>
</shell>

This will add the javascript files that you specified to your home page. 
If you want to add different files for your other pages, you can override that view and pass in the files you need.

h3. Different ways to change files
Refinery provides you with four unique ways of adding JavaScript files. 

<shell>
<% content_for :before_javascript_libraries, javascript_include_tag('init.js') %>
<% content_for :javascript_libraries, jquery_include_tags(:jquery_ui => false) %>
<% content_for :after_javascript_libraries, javascript_include_tag('jquery.cycle.all.js') %>
<% content_for :javascripts do %>
  <% javascript_include_tag('jquery.cycle.all.js', 'jquery.super_awesome.plugin.js', 'more.js') %>
<% end %>
</shell>

What they do:
*<tt>before_javascript_libraries</tt> will include a file before any libraries have been loaded.  
*<tt>javascript_libraries</tt> provides you options of being able to specify your own javascript libraries
*<tt>after_javascript_libraries</tt> will load any files you wish to include directly below your libraries
*<tt>javascripts</tt> will load all the files you wish to include on your page

TIP. You can change the files that are loaded on a per page basis by simply overriding the corresponding views to include only what you need. 
