h2. What's new, changed and removed in version 2.1.0

This guide will provide a list of bullet points of the stuff that has been added, changed and removed in version 2.1.0.

endprologue.

h3. Changes in behaviour

WARNING. Starting from 2.1.0 we dropped support for Ruby 1.8.x and now Ruby 1.9.3 is the lowest version of Ruby that is accepted with Ruby 2.0.0 encouraged. We strongly recommend upgrading if you're still on 1.8.x.

* Dropped +coffee-rails+ dependency.

* Dropped +acts-as-indexed+ dependency. Integration is achieved by "refinerycms-acts-as-indexed":https://github.com/refinery/refinerycms-acts-as-indexed instead.

* Images can only be updated (replaced) when the image being uploaded has
the same filename as the original image.

* Moved page preview functionality to its own controller and made it so that you
need to be logged in to use it.

* Renamed +force_ssl?+ to +force_ssl!+ and +refinery_user_required?+ to
+require_refinery_users!+ and moved these methods to +Refinery::Admin::BaseController+.

* Shortened all authentication url helpers. See "#1719":https://github.com/refinery/refinerycms/pull/1719.

* Changed WYMeditor.REL from +rel+ to +data-rel+.

* Gave crudify's actions the ability to redirect to a particular page of results
when +params[:page]+ is present.

* Allow user-defined geometries in +Refinery::Image#thumbnail_dimensions+.

* +Refinery::Core.authenticity_token_on_frontend+ is now +false+ by default.

* Removed +source+ from block_tags and made it so +wymeditor_whitelist_tags+ don't get added to block_tags.

* Made Crudify's +xhr_paging+ option work again.

h3. Additions

* Portuguese translation.

* Hungarian translation.

* Turkish translation.

* Ukrainian translation.

* Added canonical page id to body to allow CSS selectors to target specific pages instead of including special CSS files.

* Added search functionality to the refinerycms-authentication extension.

* Added cancel search link next to search input.

* Added template whitelisting for page tabs.

* Added draft page support when displaying the home page.

h3. Removals

* Removed +store_current_location!+ because it was polluting all controllers with
the Refinery specific instance variable +@page+.

* Removed +meta_keywords+ because seo_meta removed keyword support in version 1.4.0.

* Removed upgrade messages for Internet Explorer.

* Removed DD_belatedPNG because we dropped IE6 support.

h3. New configs

* +Refinery::Core.backend_route+ (default: +"/refinery"+). Allows the backend route to be set to something different than +/refinery+.

* +Refinery::Page.show_title_in_body+ (default: +true+). Toggle display of the page title in the page's body.

* +Refinery::Page.scope_slug_by_parent+ (default: +true+). Toggle page slug scoping by parent so that you can access sub pages like +/root-page/sub-page+ directly using +/sub-page+.

h3. Deprecations

* +:before_javascript_libraries+, +:after_javascript_libraries+, and +:javascript_libraries+ content blocks. Use the Asset Pipeline to achieve the same behaviour.

* +Refinery::Page#link_url_localised?+. Use +Refinery::Pages::Url::Localised+ instead.

* +Refinery::Page#url_normal+. Use +Refinery::Pages::Url::Normal+ instead.

* +Refinery::Page#url_marketable+. Use +Refinery::Pages::Url::Marketable+ instead.

* +Refinery::Plugin#version+ and +Refinery::Plugin#version=+.

h3. View related changes

* WYSIWYG fields moved into separate partial. See "#1796":https://github.com/refinery/refinerycms/pull/1796.

* Locale picker was extracted into shared partial. See "#1936":https://github.com/refinery/refinerycms/pull/1936.

* Search header logic was extracted into shared partial. See "#1974":https://github.com/refinery/refinerycms/pull/1974.

* Replaced menu partials with +Refinery::Pages::MenuPresenter+. See "#2068":https://github.com/refinery/refinerycms/pull/2068 and "#2069":https://github.com/refinery/refinerycms/pull/2069 and the "MenuPresenter guide":http://refinerycms.com/guides/menu-presenter.
