h2. Upgrading a Refinery app to Refinery3, Rails 4.2

endprologue.

h3. Remove old values from config files

# DELETE +config.active_record.whitelist_attributes+
# DELETE +config.active_record.mass_assignment_sanitizer+
# DELETE +config.active_record.auto_explain_threshold_in_seconds+
# CHANGE +config.serve_static_assets+ TO +config.serve_static_files+
# SET +config.eager_load+ TO +false+ (dev and test), +true+ (production)

h3. Add secrets.yml

See "the ruby upgrade guide":http://edgeguides.rubyonrails.org/upgrading_ruby_on_rails.html for exact details

h3. In your models and controllers

# Remove +attr_accessible+ statements in your models.
Control of which model attributes can be updated has moved from the model to the controller.
This feature is known as +Strong Parameters+.

# Add the attributes as strong parameters in your controllers

h4. Example
*Before*
<ruby>
#app/models/person.rb
...
attr_accessible :name, :title
...
</ruby>

*After*
<ruby>
#app/controllers/people_controller.rb

def new
  @person = Person.new(new_person_params)
....

def update
  if @person.update(person_params)
  etc
...
protected

def new_person_params
  params.require(:person).permit(:name)
end

def person_params
  params.require(:person).permit(:name, :title)
end
</ruby>

*Note: different actions can permit different sets of attributes, or all actions can share a single set of permitted attributes.
In the example above the +create+ action can only set the person's name, while the +update+ action can set the name and title.*

h3. In Engines and Extensions

h4. In admin controllers

If your app or extension uses Refinery's crudify you must define a strong parameters method, as *crudify* will call it (whether you need it nor not).
It can be a no-op, thus:

<ruby>
def mymodel_params
end
</ruby>

h4. No more dashboard

The Refinery dashboard has gone.

From +engine.db+ remove the code which linked to the dashboard and avoid the deprecation notice.

<ruby>
  plugin.activity = {...}
</ruby>


h4. FriendlyId Changes

In order to continue allowing +.find(id)+ to work:

<ruby>
friendly_id :title, use: :slugged
</ruby>
needs to become:
<ruby>
friendly_id :title, use: [:slugged, :finders]
</ruby>

There are also some other major changes in "friendly_id":https://github.com/norman/friendly_id


h3. Refinery Upgrade

run +rails generate refinery:cms --update+

*(this will run rake db:migrate and rake db:seed)*

h3. If you are using Refinerycms-blog

run +rake acts_as_taggable_on_engine:install:migrations+

h3. If you are using Devise

See "refinerycms-authentication-devise":https://github.com/refinery/refinerycms-authentication-devise

h3. Check files that you have over-ridden
Check your app for any Refinery files that you may have over-ridden.
Compare them to the new Refinery files
# Do you still need to override them?
# Are there changes you need to include in your copy of the file?
# Is there another way of making your change without overriding?

Making changes to Refinery's default behavour using presenters and decorators will make future upgrades easier as your changes are separate from Refinery itself.


h3. Refinery::Search changes

In application.rb DELETE

<ruby>
config.to_prepare do
  Refinery.searchable_models = Refinery::Page
end
</ruby>

CREATE +config/initializers/refinery/search.rb+ with an entry similar to the following

<ruby>
#config/initializers/refinery/search.rb
Refinery::Search.configure do |config|
  config.enable_for = ['Refinery::Page']
end
</ruby>

h4. Search Route

# The url helper method has been renamed from +refinery.search_path+
  to +refinery.search_root_path+
# The search method has changed from POST to GET

More information in "refinerycms-search documentation":https://github.com/refinery/refinerycms-search
