h2. Using Refinery with Rails and Spree

This guide covers enabling both Spree and Refinery to share the authorisation and authentication provided by Spree (Devise) on the same app.  After reading it, you should be familiar with:

* Getting Refinery CMS and Spree to work together within the same application. 

endprologue.

h3. Guide Assumptions

This guide assumes that you are using the authentication system provided by Spree (Devise). Additionally, it assumes that you have set up your Rails 3.0+ app already. 


h3. Include the spree_refinery_auth gem

Include the spree_refinery_auth gem as follows along with the following modifications on some files on your Rails app. 

+Gemfile+
<ruby>
...
	gem "spree_refinery_auth", :git => "https://github.com/maleko/spree_refinery_auth"
	gem 'refinerycms-core'
	gem 'refinerycms-dashboard'
	gem 'refinerycms-images'
	gem 'refinerycms-pages'
	gem 'refinerycms-resources'
	gem 'refinerycms-settings'
	# we don't use the refinery auth gem.
	# gem 'refinerycms', '~> 2.0.0'
	...
</ruby>

+config/routes.rb+
<ruby>
	FactorySound::Application.routes.draw do
	  # root :to => "refinery/pages#home"

	  mount Spree::Core::Engine, :at => '/'

	  mount Refinery::Core::Engine, :at => '/'
	end
</ruby>

+config/devise.rb+
<ruby>
	Devise.setup do |config|
	  config.authentication_keys = [ :email ]
	  config.router_name = :spree
	  # Use this hook to configure devise mailer, warden hooks and so forth. The first
	  # four configuration values can also be set straight in your models.
	end
</ruby>

+db/seeds.rb+
<ruby>
	# -- Refinery Roles
	admin_role = Spree::Role.find_by_name('admin')
	admin_user = admin_role.users.uniq.first
	refinery_role = Spree::Role.where(:name => 'Refinery').first_or_create!
	refinery_superuser_role = Spree::Role.where(:name => 'Superuser').first_or_create!

	[refinery_superuser_role, refinery_role].each do |role|
	  if admin_user.has_role?(role.name)
	    puts "[db:seed] Skipping Refinery #{role.name} role"
	  else
	    admin_user.roles << role
	  end
	end
</ruby>

Run the bundle install. Run the spree installation steps as per http://guides.spreecommerce.com/getting_started.html or rails g spree:install.

Run the migration and seeding. 

Launch the app and log into the system using /admin (Spree) or /refinery. 