h2. Using Amazon S3 for Uploads

Hosting your site's files on Amazon S3 is a popular option for many, especially
if you're using a read only file system like "Heroku":http://heroku.com.
This guide will show you how to:

* Enable and configure Refinery to store files and images on Amazon S3

endprologue.

h3. Setting Up

If you want to use Refinery's image and resource support on S3 instead of the local
file system, you'll need an additional gem. Create a bucket called "my_app_production"
and add this line in your Gemfile:

<ruby>
gem 'fog'
</ruby>

h3. Telling Refinery to use S3

Refinery will use S3 for storage if it finds the +S3_KEY+, +S3_SECRET+, and +S3_BUCKET+ environment variables.

There are a number of ways to set these with your credentials, including unix variables
or settings them manually through Ruby using ENV.

h4. Unix variables

pre. $ export S3_KEY='fill_in_your_key_here'
$ export S3_SECRET='fill_in_your_secret_key_here'
$ export S3_BUCKET='fill_in_your_bucket_name_here'
$ export S3_REGION='fill_in_your_buckets_region_here'
$ ...

On the last line, fill in your preferred way of starting your Rails server.
S3_REGION is only needed if you have created your bucket in a region other than the default 'us-east-1'.


h4. Using Ruby ENV

You can put the environment keys literally in any of the Rails config files like
+config/application.rb+ or +config/environments/production.rb+:

<ruby>
ENV['S3_KEY']='fill_in_your_key_here'
ENV['S3_SECRET']='fill_in_your_secret_key_here'
ENV['S3_BUCKET']='fill_in_your_bucket_name_here'
</ruby>

(Note: For Heroku, you should use config vars to set your environment variables, using Heroku's command line utility. See "Heroku's config vars documentation":http://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/config-vars.)

h3. Turning S3 on and off

S3 should automatically sense that it is enabled based on these ENV variables
but if it is not you can add this code to the _end_ of the appropriate environment file, for
example with the production environment +config/environments/production.rb+:

<ruby>
Refinery::Core.config.s3_backend = true
</ruby>

There are some cases where you have these three variables set but do not want to use S3.
You can always manually set S3 to either false or true in the environment you are using.
For example, forcing S3 to always be off in development is as simple as adding the
following line to the _end_ of +config/environments/development.rb+:

<ruby>
Refinery::Core.config.s3_backend = false
</ruby>
