h2. Full-Page Cache with Apache

If you have a simple Page on a slow Server with Apache you can use the Full
Page Caching for deliver the most pages directly from Apache (without passenger).

endprologue.

h3. Activate "Cache Pages Full"

Inside +config/initializers/refinery/pages.rb+, find the line that reads:

<ruby>
#config.cache_pages_full = false
</ruby>

Set it to true, and uncomment the line:

<ruby>
config.cache_pages_full = true
</ruby>

Then restart your server.

From then on, every page you request from Refinery CMS will be saved at
public/refinery/cache/pages. For exapmle, after you request
+http://your-website/about+, you will find a file named 
+public/refinery/cache/pages/about.html+ inside your application folder.

h3. Redirect

Now we have to redirect Apache to these generated files.
Add the following to your apache config or create an <tt>.htaccess</tt> file in your project root:

bc.. RewriteEngine On
  
# Rewrite home to check for static
RewriteRule ^$ home

# Checks cache directory for already cached pages
RewriteCond %{REQUEST_URI} ^/[a-zA-Z0-9\-/]*$
RewriteCond %{DOCUMENT_ROOT}/refinery/cache/pages%{REQUEST_URI}.html -f
RewriteRule ^([^.]+)$ refinery/cache/pages/%{REQUEST_URI}.html [L]

# By default, Rails appends asset timestamps to all asset paths. This allows
# you to set a cache-expiration date for the asset far into the future
ExpiresActive on
ExpiresByType image/gif "access plus 1 year"
ExpiresByType image/png "access plus 1 year"
ExpiresByType image/jpeg "access plus 1 year"
ExpiresByType image/x-icon "access plus 1 year"
ExpiresByType text/css "access plus 1 year"
ExpiresByType application/javascript "access plus 1 year"

# compress static text files
AddOutputFilterByType DEFLATE text/html text/plain text/xml text/javascript text/css application/javascript

p. Now pages are delivered by Apache without touching Passenger.
