h2. Changing Page Parts

Refinery sets up two default page parts +Body+ and +Side Body+.
Sometimes this is not suitable for your project.
This guide will show you how to:

* Change the default page parts to be something else
* Add a new page part to a single page

endprologue.

h3. Changing default Page Parts

By default, Refinery provides you with +Body+ and +Side Body+ page parts since
most pages have a two column-style layout. If your layout has three content
areas or one, you're going to want to update this setting to reflect that.

Within @config/initializers/refinery/pages.rb@ you will see various default
settings are commented out, including the following:

<ruby>
  # Configure global page default parts
  # config.default_parts = ["Body", "Side Body"]
</ruby>

Edit this code to have the names of the default page parts you want, click +Save+
and you're done.

Here's a sample of a site that would have three content areas on most of its
pages.

<ruby>
  # Configure global page default parts
  config.default_parts = ["Left Body", "Middle Body", "Right Body"]
</ruby>

h3. Changing Page Parts for a single page

Often we find our home pages have three or more page parts but the rest of the
site only needs two. In this situation you just want to have the default page
parts set to Body and Side Body and your home page setup to have an extra one.

Refinery supports the ability for the user to add new Page Parts on the fly when
editing a page.

To add a new Page Part just to the home page, refer back to
@config/initializers/refinery/pages.rb@. Inside, you should see the following:

<ruby>
  # config.new_page_parts = false
</ruby>

Uncomment this and change the value to true, save, and restart your server.

Now go to your "Pages" tab in Refinery and edit your home page. You'll notice a
plus and minus button at the top right of the visual editor. Click on the plus
icon and add a new page part titled "Middle Body" and click save. A new visual
editor will appear in a tab called "Middle Body" ready to use just for this
page. Inserting content there will show up on any page that uses the
@content_page@ partial (by default, all of them).

WARNING. If you've modified your @app/views/refinery/pages/home.html.erb@ file,
you will not see your new page part until you set that page part to display in
the view.

If you have modified your @home.html.erb@ file, you can use the following
snippet to output the new part's content in your page:

<erb>
  <%= raw @page.content_for(:middle_body) %>
</erb>

NOTE: If you don't have a +app/views/refinery/pages/home.html.erb+ view already,
run +rake refinery:override view=pages/home+ to copy it into your app.
