h2. Translate Refinery

Refinery supports internationalization (I18n for short), which includes translation. This guide will show you how to:

* Improve upon or add a new translation to Refinery

endprologue.

h3. Setup

Before you start translating, you should clone a fresh copy of Refinery from GitHub. See "this guide":/guides/contributing-to-refinery for information how to do that.

It's not required, but we strongly advise you to create a separate branch when adding a translation or a new feature. You can do so by typing the following shell command.

TIP: Throughout this guide, we refer to the Dutch locale (+nl+). In most circumstances, you will not want to refer to this locale; be sure to substitute +nl+ for the locale you're working with.

<shell>
$ git checkout -b i18n_nl
</shell>

h3. Finding missing keys

First, you must create a 'dummy' application to enable additional useful +rake+ tasks. Do so with the following command:
<shell>
$ bundle exec rake refinery:testing:dummy_app
</shell>

Then execute the following to get a list of missing translations for all locales:

<shell>
$ bundle exec rake app:translate:lost_in_translation_all
</shell>

Or execute the following rake task to get a list of missing translations for a given locale:

<shell>
$ bundle exec rake app:translate:lost_in_translation LOCALE=nl
</shell>

The output of this will look like this:

<pre>
Searching for missing translations for the locale: nl
refinery.admin.pages.form_advanced_options.page_options in pages/app/views/refinery/admin/pages/_form_advanced_options.html.erb      is not in any nl locale file
refinery.admin.pages_dialogs.link_to.insert in pages/app/views/refinery/admin/pages_dialogs/link_to.html.erb     is not in any nl locale file
Number of missing translations for nl: 2
</pre>

As you can see, there are two missing keys: +refinery.admin.pages.form_advanced_options.page_options+ and +refinery.admin.pages_dialogs.link_to.insert+.

h3. Adding the keys

Each plugin has its own locale YAML files. The one we'll have to fix is +pages/config/locales/nl.yml+. Note that it is important to put the right key in the right file.

The key +refinery.admin.pages_dialogs.link_to.insert+ is represented in YAML like so:

<yaml>
nl:
  refinery:
    admin:
      pages_dialogs:
        link_to:
          insert: Voeg in
</yaml>

Order the keys exactly like the en.yml version. This way, you can use a diff-enabled-editor to open both the +en.yml+ and +nl.yml+ file to quickly update the locale. If you are making changes to the +en.yml+ file, alphabetically list keys you add.

TIP: If you're starting a translation for a new language, copy +en.yml+ to "your_locale".yml

WARNING: Make sure you change +en:+ to your locale's key at the top of "your_locale".yml to avoid overriding the English translation (e.g. +nl:+)

h3. Run the Refinery tests

Run the Refinery tests to be sure you didn't break something, and that your YAML is valid.

<shell>
$ bundle exec rake spec
</shell>

h3. Commit & Push

Add the modified files to the git repository

<shell>
$ git add pages/config/locales/nl.yml
</shell>

Commit your changes

<shell>
$ git commit
</shell>

and push them back to GitHub

<shell>
$ git push origin i18n_nl
</shell>

h3. Pull request

* Go to GitHub, and select your i18n_nl branch;
* Click on the button "Pull request";
* Add a message about I18n, like "Hi, I've translated the missing Dutch keys";
* Press "Send pull request".

h3. Done

And now you're done! If your changes are accepted, you will end up on the "contributor list":http://github.com/refinery/refinerycms/contributors.
