h2. How to test Refinery

Refinery ships with a range of specs and cucumbers to test it. This guide will show you how to:

* Run the tests that come built in with Refinery to ensure your install is working correctly

endprologue.

h3. First configure your Refinery application for testing
<shell>
rails g refinerycms_testing
</shell>

h3. Running the Tests

At your application root run:

<shell>
$ rake
</shell>

This will run the cucumber and rspec tests.

To run just cucumber:

<shell>
$ rake cucumber
</shell>

To run just rspec:

<shell>
$ rake spec
</shell>

h3. What do I do if tests fail?

Check the error message to see if it is a problem on your end.

If not, then "file an issue on GitHub":https://github.com/resolve/refinerycms/issues, with your version of Ruby and OS included. Bonus points if you fix it yourself!

h3. Where are the tests?

Refinery tests are located inside each engine in two locations: +/features+ and +/spec+.

Third-party engines should have their own tests in their respective engine folders (which may be inside their gem).

h3. Fixtures

In case if you go with fixtures, and want to test your refinery based project custom code - you need to create next fixtures to avoid Refinery generate "Welcome Page" on it's start.

roles.yml

<pre><code>
refinery:
  id: 1
  title: "Refinery"
superuser:
  id: 2
  title: "Superuser"
</code></pre>

roles_users.yml

<pre><code>
one:
  user_id: 1
  role_id: 1
</code></pre>

users.yml

<pre><code>
admin:
  id: 1
  username: "username"
  email: "some@email.com"
  encrypted_password: "1234567"
</code></pre>
