h1. Adding Multiple Images to your Model

Refinery offers a generator which allows an engine/model to have fields which are single images. It doesn't supply anything out-of-the-box to allow a model to have a collection of images. 

However Refinery has a plugin "Refinerycms-page-images" which implements an image collection for the Refinery::Page model.

It is relatively straight-forward to use this plugin to add an image collection to your model.

*Thanks to "Prokop Simek":https://github.com/prokopsimek who detailed this method "here":https://github.com/refinery/refinerycms-page-images/issues/111.*

h2. What you get

When you have completed these steps your model/engine you will be able to add and remove images from an instance of your model using the same tabbed interface used by Refinery::Pages.

In a view you will have access to a collection of images ("@model.images").

h3. Pre-requisites

* Refinerycms
* Refinerycms-page-images
* an engine or extension to work with (the examples will use Shows)


h5. Configure Refinerycms-page-images

bc..
# app/config/initializers/refinery/page_images.rb
Refinery::PageImages.configure do |config|
  config.captions = true
  config.enable_for = [
    {model: "Refinery::Page", tab: "Refinery::Pages::Tab"},
    {model: "Refinery::Show", tab: "Refinery::Shows::Tab"}
  ]
  config.wysiwyg = true
end

h5.  Add page-images to your model

bc..
#vendor/extensions/shows/app/models/refinery/shows/show.rb
module Refinery
  module Shows
    class Show < Refinery::Core::BaseModel

      self.table_name = 'refinery_shows'
      validates :title, :presence => true, :uniqueness => true
      has_many_page_images
    end
  end
end

h5. Define Tabs

bc..
# in vendor/extensions/shows/lib/refinery/shows/tabs.rb
 module Refinery
  module Shows
    class Tab
      attr_accessor :name, :partial

      def self.register(&block)
        tab = self.new

        yield tab

        raise "A tab MUST have a name!: #{tab.inspect}" if tab.name.blank?
        raise "A tab MUST have a partial!: #{tab.inspect}" if tab.partial.blank?
      end

      protected

        def initialize
          ::Refinery::Shows.tabs << self # add me to the collection of registered tabs
        end
    end
  end
 end

h5. Load and Initialize Tabs
# vendor/extensions/shows/lib/refinery/shows.rb
require 'refinerycms-core'

bc..
module Refinery
  autoload :ShowsGenerator, 'generators/refinery/shows_generator'

  module Shows
    require 'refinery/shows/engine'

    autoload :Tab, 'refinery/shows/tabs'

    class << self
      attr_writer :root
      attr_writer :tabs

      def root
        @root ||= Pathname.new(File.expand_path('../../../', __FILE__))
      end

      def tabs
        @tabs ||= []
      end

      def factory_paths
        @factory_paths ||= [ root.join('spec', 'factories').to_s ]
      end
    end
  end
end


h5. Modify the admin view

bc..
#vendor/extensions/shows/app/views/refinery/admin/_form.html.erb
<%= form_for [refinery, :shows_admin, @show] do |f| -%>
  <%= render '/refinery/admin/error_messages',
              :object => @show,
              :include_object_name => true %>

  <div class='field'>
    <%= f.label :title -%>
    <%= f.text_field :title, :class => 'larger widest' -%>
  </div>

  <div class='field'>
    <div id='page-tabs' class='clearfix ui-tabs ui-widget ui-widget-content ui-corner-all'>
      <ul id='page_parts'>
        <li class='ui-state-default ui-state-active'>
          <%= link_to 'Blurb', "#page_part_blurb" %>
        </li>
        <% Refinery::Shows.tabs.each_with_index do |tab, tab_index| %>
          <li class='ui-state-default' id="custom_<%= tab.name %>_tab">
            <%= link_to tab.name.titleize, "#custom_tab_#{tab_index}" %>
          </li>
        <% end %>
      </ul>

      <div id='page_part_editors'>
        <% part_index = -1 %>
          <%= render 'form_part', :f => f, :part_index => (part_index += 1) -%>
        <% Refinery::Shows.tabs.each_with_index do |tab, tab_index| %>
          <div class='page_part' id='<%= "custom_tab_#{tab_index}" %>'>
            <%= render tab.partial, :f => f %>
          </div>
        <% end %>
      </div>
    </div>
  </div>

  <%= render '/refinery/admin/form_actions', :f => f,
             :continue_editing => false,
             :delete_title => t('delete', :scope => 'refinery.shows.admin.shows.show'),
             :delete_confirmation => t('message', :scope => 'refinery.admin.delete', :title => @show.title) -%>
<% end -%>

##### Add strong parameters for the new fields

Part 1. Write a decorator.

bc..
#vendor/extensions/shows/app/decorators/controllers/refinery/admin/shows_controller_decorator.rb
module RefineryPageImagesShowsControllerDecorator
    def permitted_show_params
      # Hand the case where all images have been deleted
      params[:show][:images_attributes]={} if params[:show][:images_attributes].nil?
      super <<  [images_attributes: [:id, :caption, :image_page_id]]
    end
  end

Refinery::Shows::Admin::ShowsController.send :prepend, RefineryPageImagesShowsControllerDecorator


Part 2. Tell the Controller to Permit the new parameters it must handle

Some ModelsControllers will require this update. It doesn't change the controller itself, but makes it easier to extend the initial list of permitted fields. Later versions of Refinery may generate this automatically.

bc..
#vendor/extensions/shows/app/controllers/refinery/shows/admin/shows_controller.rb
module Refinery
  module Shows
    module Admin
      class ShowsController < ::Refinery::AdminController

        crudify :'refinery/shows/show'

        def show_params
          params.require(:show).permit(permitted_show_params)
        end

       # private

        # Only allow a trusted parameter "white list" through.
        def permitted_show_params
          [:title, :blurb]
        end

      end
    end
  end
end


