h2. How to use Amazon S3 for storage

Hosting your site's files on Amazon S3 is a popular option for many, especially if you're using "Heroku":http://heroku.com . This guide will show you how to:

* Enable and configure Refinery to store files and images on Amazon S3

endprologue.

h3. Setting Up

If you want to use Refinery's image and resource support on S3 instead of the local file system, you'll need an additional gem. Create a bucket called "my_app_production" and uncomment this line in your Gemfile:

<ruby>
gem 'fog'
</ruby>

h3. Telling Refinery to use S3

Refinery will use S3 for storage if it finds the +S3_KEY+, +S3_SECRET+, and +S3_BUCKET+ environment variables.

There are a number of ways to set these with your credentials, including unix variables or settings them manually through Ruby using ENV.

h4. Unix variables

pre. $ export S3_KEY='fill_in_your_key_here'
$ export S3_SECRET='fill_in_your_secret_key_here'
$ export S3_BUCKET='fill_in_your_bucket_name_here'
$ export S3_REGION='fill_in_your_buckets_region_here'
$ ...

On the last line, fill in your preferred way of starting your Rails server.
S3_REGION is only needed if you have created your bucket in a region other than the default 'us-east-1'.


h4. Using Ruby ENV

You can put the environment keys literally in any of the Rails config files like +config/environment.rb+ or
+config/environments/production.rb+:

<ruby>
ENV['S3_KEY']='fill_in_your_key_here'
ENV['S3_SECRET']='fill_in_your_secret_key_here'
ENV['S3_BUCKET']='fill_in_your_bucket_name_here'
</ruby>

h3. Turning S3 on and off

To turn on s3 storage, add this line to the _end_ of +config/environment.rb+:  

<ruby>
Refinery.s3_backend = true
</ruby>

There are some cases where you have these three variables set but do not want to use S3. You can always manually set S3 to either false or true in any environment. For example, forcing S3 to always be off in development is as simple as adding the following line to the _end_ of +config/environments/development.rb+:

<ruby>
Refinery.s3_backend = false
</ruby>
