h2. How to Install Refinery on Duostack

"Duostack":http://duostack.com is a new hosting choice for Ruby/Rails or Node.js developers. This guide will show you how to:

* Install and deploy Refinery on the Duostack Rails hosting platform

endprologue.

WARNING. This guide is based on Refinery CMS 1.0.0. The automated Duostack installation shown here will not work in earlier versions of Refinery.

h3. Starting Out

First you need to install Refinery. To do that you need the refinerycms gem.

<shell>
gem install refinerycms
</shell>

Next go to "Duostack.com":http://duostack.com and click "Request Beta Access" for a free beta account (you will have to fill out a form and wait for their response to your request - make sure you mention Refinery CMS "for priority":http://twitter.com/duostack/status/26856205687201793).

Now you've got a Duostack account, install the Duostack gem by following their instructions under "Ruby Gem":

"Command Line Client (external link, docs.duostack.com)":http://docs.duostack.com/command-line-client#setup

Now it's time to create your Refinery application using the built in +--duostack+ option

WARNING: Make sure you specify an application name (+my_app_name+ below) as this is required by Duostack.

<shell>
refinerycms myapp --duostack my_app_name
</shell>

Watch the output for these lines

<shell>
Creating Duostack app..
Running: cd /path/to/app/myapp && duostack create
...
====  Launching first instances.......... done

====  App successfully deployed to http://site-name.duostack.net
</shell>

This will output the URL for your Duostack hosted Refinery application. Your application should now be live at http://site-name.duostack.net

NOTE: if you already have a Refinery application that you would like to deploy then just deploy as normal according to Duostack's instructions. You do not need to run the +--duostack+ flag, as all it does is automate some things.

h3. Adding Amazon S3 Support

If you want to use Refinery's image and resource support you'll need to setup storage too. Create a bucket called "my_app_production" and uncomment this line in your Gemfile (this might already be done for you):

<ruby>
gem 'fog'
</ruby>

Next tell Duostack about your new S3 bucket.

<shell>
duostack env add S3_KEY=123key S3_SECRET=456secret S3_BUCKET=my_app_production
duostack restart
</shell>

If you have created your bucket in a region other than 'us-east-1' you need to add S3_REGION=s3region also.
That's it! Duostack will restart your site and it should be live with S3 support.

h3. Troubleshooting

h4. Missing a required gem

Simply add that gem to the Gemfile.

Otherwise, hop on to the IRC Channel and ask someone for help. Or, see if you can open the duostack logs to spot the error yourself.
Being that this is a new service it may be best to ask Duostack for assistance.