h2. Attaching Refinery CMS to an existing Rails application

This guide covers integration with Refinery CMS. After reading it, you should be familiar with:

* Attaching Refinery CMS to an existing Rails application

endprologue.

WARNING. This guide is based on Refinery CMS 0.9.9.16. Some of the code shown here will not work in earlier versions of Refinery.

h3. Guide Assumptions

This guide is designed for those who want to attach Refinery CMS to an existing Rails application.

Refinery is a Ruby on Rails web application. If you have no prior experience with Rails, you will find a very steep learning curve diving straight into Refinery.  There are some good free resources on the Internet for learning Rails, including:

* "Getting Started with Rails":http://guides.rubyonrails.org/getting_started.html
* "Rails for Zombies":http://railsforzombies.org/labs

h3. Steps to add Refinery CMS to your application

h4. Add Refinery CMS as a dependency in your Gemfile

Open up your Gemfile and add the latest version (a later version than the one shown "may exist":https://rubygems.org/gems/refinerycms/versions):

<ruby>
  gem 'refinerycms', '= 0.9.9.16'
</ruby>

Now, to install the gem run:

<shell>
  bundle install
</shell>

h4. Generate support files and migrations

Now you can simply run the RefineryCMS generator:

<shell>
  rails generate refinerycms
</shell>

h4. Migrate your database

After the previous step you should have a number of new migrations in your db/migrate directory.
To use these just run:

<shell>
  rake db:migrate
</shell>

After this, you should be all set.

h3. Getting Help

As this is a relatively new process, if you need help with any of these steps we would love to "hear about it":/guides/how-to-get-help-with-refinery.