h2. Getting Started with EDGE Refinery

If you're an experienced Refinery developer you might want to live on the edge. This guide will show you how to:

* Get started with a Refinery installation on the edge version

endprologue.

WARNING: This tutorial is only for advanced Refinery users who are used to continuous integration with Refinery and as such this may not work properly but we'd love your "feedback":/guides/getting-started-with-edge-refinery#feedback.

Here are the basic steps:

h3. Clone Refinery

First clone the git source in order to get the newest app generator.

<shell>
$ git clone git://github.com/resolve/refinerycms.git ~/refinerycms-edge
</shell>

h3. Install your application

Now use that generator to install your application. (You can specify other flags here that you would normally, like for "Heroku":/guides/how-to-install-refinery-on-heroku or "Duostack":/guides/how-to-install-refinery-on-duostack hosting services). First, we have to make sure Bundler is up to date.

<shell>
$ cd ~/refinerycms-edge
$ bundle install
$ cd ~/
</shell>

Now, run the generator.

WARNING: Do not run the generator from within the refinerycms-edge directory. If you do this, Rails will refuse to install because it will think you already have a Rails application.

<shell>
$ ~/refinerycms-edge/bin/refinerycms ~/path/to/my/app
</shell>

h3. Getting Started guide

Now you're ready to follow along with the rest of the "Getting Started guide":/guides/getting-started-with-refinery#hello-refinery!

h3. Feedback

We really need feedback for edge versions so that any problems you find don't make it into the final so please "let us know on GitHub":https://github.com/resolve/refinerycms/issues.