h2. Using Custom View or Layout Templates

Many Refinery sites have more than one look. Sometimes, the content from a page
might have a different container, or the page itself might be laid out
differently. This guide will:

* Help you decide whether these techniques are appropriate for your site;
* Guide you as to which technique is the appropriate one to use for your
situation;
* Show you how to enable both techniques.

endprologue.

h3. Take a Second Look

When developing a site, you might stumble into an issue where you need to change
the structure of the output page to accommodate a different look or a necessary
DOM modification that cannot be achieved through the reordering of page parts.
In these cases, it is nice to be able to quickly draft a second template and
swap.

Refinery utilises a separate view file for the home page
(+refinery/pages/home.html.erb+). In all other circumstances, by default,
Refinery uses the +show+ action of the +Refinery::PagesController+ to render
page content. That means overriding and editing +refinery/pages/show.html.erb+
to change the structure. By default, that template is largely blank&mdash;it
contains a reference to the +refinery/_content_page+ partial, which utilises a
complex series of classes beginning with the +ContentPagePresenter+.

This is rather advanced magic, and in some circumstances, this automatic
rendering does not serve well &mdash; or we might need to wrap content inside an
element. In this case, when we are customizing the rendering of only the page,
not the header or footer or actual site layout, it is appropriate to enable
Refinery's custom view templates.

Likewise, on some pages, we might prefer to wrap the content of a page inside a
different layout, one where the header, footer, or other sections are laid out
differently. In this case, it's appropropriate to enable Refinery's custom
layout templates.

h3. Enabling Custom View Templates

This is a straightforward process that enhances Refinery's capabilities greatly.

h4. Set Initializers

Open +config/initializers/refinery/pages.rb+.

* Change +config.use_view_templates+ to +true+;
* Change +config.view_template_whitelist+ to an array containing either string or
symbol representations of your new view's filename (i.e. if you will create a
new view called +about_us.html.erb+, set this whitelist to +[:about_us]+). In
order for a view template to be displayed in the back-end, it must be present in
the whitelist. When you select an option in the back-end corresponding to one of
these whitelisted templates, it hands the name of the template to +render+.

h4. Create Template

Create +app/views/refinery/pages/about_us.html.erb+, where +about_us+ is the
name of the file you whitelisted.

* Inside of this file, you can either +render '/refinery/content_page'+, or you
can use +@page.content_for(:body)+ to output the content of a specific page part.
NB: You may want to invoke html_safe like this (@page.content_for(:body).html_safe) in some cases.

h4. Set Back-End Select

Then, when editing your page, you should see an option to change the template in
the __Advanced Options__ section.

h3. Enabling Custom Layout Templates

This is nearly identical to enabling View Templates, with the following caveats:

* The configuration variables are named +config.use_layout_templates+ and
+config.layout_template_whitelist+, respectively;
* When you set a custom layout in the back-end, it passes the template's title to
+render :layout+;
* You should create your new layout inside of +app/views/layouts/+, not
g+/app/views/refinery/pages/+.

h3. When Not to Use Custom View Templates

Do not use your view template to instantiate collections
(i.e. +<% events = Refinery::Events::Event.all %>+). This is a violation of MVC
convention, and in certain circumstances, can cause major issues (such as when
your Senior Programmer begins to pummel you with her fists). If you need to make
new collections or objects available to your view templates, you have three
options before you:

h4. Use a Decorator to Add the Collection to Pages#show

Assuming we need access to a collection of events, create
+/app/decorators/controllers/refinery/pages/pages_controller_decorator.rb+
containing the following:

<ruby>
Refinery::PagesController.class_eval do
  before_filter :fetch_events, :only => [:show]

  def fetch_events
    @events = ::Refinery::Events::Event.all
  end
  protected :fetch_events
end
</ruby>

You can also entirely override the +show+ method inside this decorator, too, if
need be. You can "view the existing method here":https://github.com/refinery/refinerycms/blob/master/pages/app/controllers/refinery/pages_controller.rb#L23-39
for reference.

This method has the advantage of constraining the find to occur only on pages
that are not the home page (and not, for example, on any engine pages). There
are two major downsides, though:

# If you override only the +show+ method and not the +preview+ method, you will
break the +preview+ method since it will not be able to find your collection;
# It will still perform the find on many other pages, which is not well-contained
and has implications for performance.

h4. Modify the ApplicationController

You can modify the +ApplicationController+ in your host app to run a before
filter, but this is even less efficient than the above-listed method. It is,
however, the simplest method.

h4. Create a Custom Action

This is actually relatively straightforward with one single exception.
Basically, use a decorator to create an additional method on the
+PagesController+:

<ruby>
# /app/decorators/controllers/refinery/pages/pages_controller_decorator.rb
Refinery::PagesController.class_eval do
  def about_us
    @page = ::Refinery::Page.where(:link_url => '/about-us').first || error_404
    @events = ::Refinery::Events::Event.all render_with_templates?
  end
end
</ruby>

WARNING. You may need to adjust the +find+ method if you intend to rename the
page at any point, since +link_url+ is volatile.

You will also need to add a route to this method, or else the page will remain
unaccessible. On the very first line of +config/routes.rb+, before anything
else, add the following:

<ruby>
Refinery::Core::Engine.routes.prepend do
  get '/about-us', :to => 'pages#about_us', :as => :about_us
end

# Your route file resumes here
</ruby>

Then this will use the +app/views/refinery/pages/about_us.html.erb+ template by
default.

There is one huge advantage to this method: the additional find is
well-constrained to just a single page. There are, however, two downsides:

# This removes some of the flexibility afforded to you by Refinery, since you
must be able to locate the Refinery::Page entry for the method to work;
# This requires you to prepend to routes, which is not a common idiom in Rails,
and might be confusing to newcomers if you do not document properly.

When possible, you should prefer either of the two previous methods, but this
last method is made available for completeness.
